well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we're going to talk about rosa
parks
and some lesser-known facts about rosa
and we're going to do this because hey
obviously the anniversary and because i
got a message
bo i love you brother but i feel like
your recent focus
on training organization and advice
denies the historical reality that most
times
social change and revolution is caused
by somebody who reacts to an injustice
and others follow their lead tomorrow is
the 65th anniversary of rosa parks
i'd love to hear a few words about her
deal okay so we all know the story
december 1st 1955 rosa parks becomes the
first person to
refuse to give up her she's seat
seamstress and she's tired
she is exhausted physically
and the white section of the bus gets
full
driver tells her to move and she says no
i'm not doing it
because she's also tired of giving in
from there there's the montgomery bus
boycott
and it's a success
that's the story that's how it gets
framed most times
and there are a lot of facts in there
there's not a whole lot of truth though
because those things aren't always the
same thing because it leaves some stuff
out
and to be honest i don't think it does
justice to her story
first she wasn't the first person to do
this
she was somebody the naacp looked at was
like you know what
she can win in court she can carry the
message she can get it done
i wonder how they knew that
she's a seamstress seems odd
you find out that she had worked with
the naacp since 1943
investigated some high-profile stuff
was a secretary
she was tired because she'd been
battling this
injustice for more than a decade
in 1944 she had a job at maxwell air
force base
she said you might just say maxwell
opened up my eyes maxwell air force base
is in montgomery alabama
why would it open our eyes because it
was the military federal property
trolleys were already desegregated
now over time
she kind of loses a little bit of hope
she starts focusing more on youth
outreach
getting ready to pass the torch hoping
they'd succeed where she failed
she worked for this liberal couple who
was also
involved in the civil rights movement
the durs
in 1955 they arranged for
her to get a scholarship to the
highlander folk school
in tennessee
place for training activists while there
she was mentored by none other than
septima clark
a woman that martin luther king referred
to as the mother of the movement
she's only there a couple weeks
only there a couple weeks and that was
in august of 1955.
december 1st of 1955
when she changed the country
the courage and bravery
that it takes to say no i'm not moving
that can't be taught that can't be
taught
doing it in a way that can carry the
message
that's something that can be learned
and organizing like that
the workshops that she and many others
attended
they can help provide those skills they
can also just
put you around people who are committed
to the same cause
even if it's just for a couple of weeks
and can help reignite that fire
get you back in the game
highlander folk school actually still
exists
it's got a new name like highlander
research and education center
but it still exists it's still up there
in tennessee
because those kind of workshops
that kind of training that kind of
organization
it's still necessary and it's going to
stay necessary
until we get a society where everybody
gets a fair
shake
when you think of this story when you
think of rosa parks
remember that the the story that's often
told
where she's just tired doesn't want to
move
yeah i mean okay
but she was tired of giving in
because she had been in this struggle
for more than a decade
that's a long fight and she had dealt
with the injustice her entire life
boiling it down to her being a
seamstress
and just being tired not wanting to move
i don't think that's a fair
representation
of the commitment it takes to engage in
what she engaged in
in montgomery alabama back then
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day